1. The measures do vary - with raising public awareness to explicit prohibition
2. Saying that imposing sanctions on fat would improve healthy consumption of food is a bit like saying minimum wage would raise economic standard or ban on pornography assist rights of women. The root cause is not addressed.
3. Alcohol does present an interesting example with the attempts at its prohibition in the US.
4. Permit but discourage is a policy that seems to work
5. We don't want to fall in the trap Victorians did when they blamed gambling and alcholism as vices (of course, opium and yellow peril seemed to have laid the foundations of current criminalization of drugs).

6. Law has already changed from punishment to minimal control - instead of command and control, societies have turned to negotiation and persuasion.

Consider one example: cigarettes and bank deposits. In one program an individual trying to stop smoking opens a bank account. For six months she deposits the amount of money she would otherwise spend on cigarettes into the account. After six months she takes a test that determines whether she has been smoking. If she hasn’t she gets to keep the money in the account; if she has the account is closed and the money is donated to charity. There is evidence that participating in this bank program increases the chance of quitting by over 50 percent, giving this initiative a much higher success rate than many other cessation efforts.96 (Nudge)

7.1. Nudge proponents Thaler, Sunstein also recommend driving courses instead of requirement of a helmet. This, may be, is going a bit too far. Obesity, however, is not a comparable example - the fear is mostly exacerbated by the interests of pharmaceutical companies, cosmetic surgeons and a new range of health-food producers.

It is also argued that weight gain was gradual and all across the board. Exposure to endocrine-disrupting-chemicals can cause diabetes. Race, Ethnicity are also a factor (AfAm,Lat are more likely in teenage years).

7.2. Some reasearch (Chritakis,Fowler on social contagian) points to catchability of healthy/unhealthy habits. 

7.3. Sedentary behaviours seem to contribute to obesity as well. Depression presents another dimension raises serious questions on data-accuracy.

7.4. The question that can be raised is that whether it is the increasing cost on obesity itself (through hip replacements and increased dietary monitoring) that causes concern about obesity? May be, other problems (psychological) have become classified under obesity.

7.5. It is well esablished that BMI itself is a flawed measure.  BMI can include muscle fat and it was demonstrated that slightly overweight individual had lower mortality rates and underweight people had higher ones.

7.6. There are severe implementation issues with public awareness campaigns (since health-has-every-size campaign and the likes have a just cause). In fact, diets as volumetrics - who are recorded to have worked - show that any food can be a healthy food (eaten in moderation or if combined with healthier foods). There would a so-called appearance bias in media - which policies won't be able to do anything about.

(Seeman and Luciani are against government control)

8. Policies to prevent weight loss

8.1. Weight reduction policies have been largely a failure - Something like 95 percent of those who can lose weight regain the pounds shed, if not more, within five years (3:3).
8.2. Policy should be concerned with if it is targeting to prevent the stigmatization of fat people - as a side-goal to reducing obesity.

8.3. The several strategies to promote good eating/drinking and physical activity are more likely to have a greater impact, taken together, than any one of them individually.

8.4. Haltom, McCann "the dangers of fast food are inseparable from the effects of other life choices about exercise, overall diet, and the like as well as genetic predispositions. Demonstrating how fast food contributes to heart attacks thus is more difficult than making the causal linkage between a lifetime of smoking and lung cancer" (3:93)

8.5. The three major interventionist policies are - marketing, fiscal policy, and promoting physical activity.

9. Implementation of Excise - has issues regarding effectiveness, equity, and "a license to do" (i.e. someone who wants it would be willing to pay extra price to it - sees it as a luxury).

9.1. Advocates of fat taxes point to the success of levies on tobacco as proof that these interventions can work to suppress consumption. However, the experience with taxes on tobacco also sheds light on two more specific issues: the potential for evasion and the importance of the regulatory mix. Taxes on alcohol, at least in the United States, are an object lesson in a simple reality: it is not enough to impose such taxes; they must be levied at a sufficient level in order for them to be effective.

9.1.1. The manner in which drinkers respond to changes in the price of alcohol varies as there are many possibilities for substitution. Price changes for alcohol are particularly effective on youth due to their limited incomes.1

9.1.2.  Because being fit is about combining nutritious eating and drinking with exercise, it is also important to encourage regular physical activity. These several goals—drive down consumption of junk, increase eating and drinking of nutritious foods and drinks, achieve more physical activity—present both complexities and opportunities for health advocates and their use of legal interventions.

9.1.3. Underwriting can be used to subsidize nutritious foods (using the tax levied on high-fat foods). Farm subsidies need to be be considered with the whole supply chain - otherwise the desired control on products would be immaterial ("Although the role of subsidies in overproduction is debatable, it is patently false that subsidies make junk food more affordable than fresh fruits and vegetables") (6:81).

9.1.4. Without control of advertising, just imposing taxes alone would create urban discontent.

9.1.5. Taxes on particular products are neither sufficient to subsidize the nutritious foods - nor do they stop purchasing of lower brands. Unpredictable financial atmosphere puts further limits on the accuracy of predictions of consumption. The author finds regulatory mix relevant. 

9.2. {The inculcation of physical exericse for all (instead of the sporty types) would be money well spent.} The effect of technology would need to be counteracted with mandation of physical exercise.

9.3. Survey data in the United States indicate that the youngest children have diets that are too high in energy and added sugar, fat, and salt, and that include too few fruits, vegetables, and complex carbohydrates. With respect to activity patterns, too many young children have lifestyles that include too much screen time, not enough sleep, and too little active play.

9.3.1. Mother and Father's BMI are the strongest indicator of child's health. 

9.4. HLVs - could be very expensive, it ignores that environment would need to change for the decision-making to change, it also ignores evidence that people have trouble maintaining loss of weight (because their food habits don't change by just targetting weight-loss). It is very likely that people on HLV would be on and off the weight-loss programs without getting the benefits they want. CTFC (canadian children's fitness credit) seems a well crafted solution.




