
1. For TNZ, nominal prices were adjusted according to Fisher index.
2. Own production can be significant (we're comparing different markets)
3. Sections
4. Section K (assigned)
4.1 Section K details food consumption (K1 has most relevant data)
4.1.1. hh_k01_2 -> did they eat within the HH
4.1.2. hh_k02_02 -> how much they eat (if 4.1.1 is true)
4.1.3. hh_k03_02 -> how much from last 7 days
4.1.4. hh_k04    -> how much spent
4.1.5. hh_k05_2  -> how much came from own production
4.1.6. hh_k06_2  -> how much came from gifts
4.1.7.1. The formula for bought items is : 
    hh_k04>0
4.1.7.2. The questions that arise are whether it's OK to ignore the out-of-HH consumption (in a household we consider only when there are purchases being made - this is largely to unniform the data between UK and TNZ). 
3.2. Section N talks about assets owned (meaning that assets are not bought as much)

3.3. Section E talks about income(labour) (disguised unemployment) (assigned)
3.3.1. Q04 - hh_e04 - checks if there was any work done in past 7 days
3.3.2. Q6  - determines type of employment - interested in {"on farm","paid employee","self employed non-agr" (with or without employees)} Q8 - Yes if available to work. About 6000/29054 do NOT work.
3.3.2.1. Q6 determines the number - Q22 - contains the amount paid ( If it is a farm, then only 3% farm workers are paid ). Only 14% are actually paid.
These are cases of contractual obligations. Most likely people are going hungry because they just don't have a way to buy food (it is not as if they are unpaid - they actually don't work) - ~100 of them have secondary jobs.
3.3.2.2. Q35 and Q38 are concerned with secondary jobs - they don't generate a lot of instances of secondary jobs (we should add them up for our analysis - assigned)
3.3.3. Q51 and Q65 are relevant for self-employments

3.3.3.1. Q51 checks for self-employment (1785/20559) are self-employed (hh_e51=='Yes') in past week - 537 have worked in past 12 months if not in last week (i.e. hh_e52=='Yes' & hh_e51 == 'No'). 

Q65 - net income last week/month from the business (self-employment)

2246/20559 have positive net incomes.

3.3.3.2. 74 asks for unpaid help. Only 824 workers helped without getting paid. 


3.4. Section F talks about food outside the HH (assigned) - need to be considered if this is a significant number. Only 5% seem to have eaten a meal outside the household (for them the value of the outside consumption - i.e. hh_f03 - wasn't that high - TBA)

3.5. Section G has subjective welfare (permanent income)
3.6. Section I has food security concerns (borrowed food etc.)
3.7. Section L (Section M - annually) - describes non-food expenditure 

4. Purchase vs consumption is a key concern
5. The comparison with visible consumption wasn't done. It turns out that for LSMS-TNZ, section M records some data that could imply visible consumption. Section N records data that households own.

6. In a more socially connected society - where people may eat at other people's home, nuts or raisins may become part of visible consumption. Whether this choice is valid or not requires the sort of visible index which Heffetz builds. Without that our analysis relies on usual aggregation.

7. Any claims on budget share requires coverage i.e. the claim that all expenditure is recorded in the survey.


If, for example, name dropping the names of schools attended by one’s children early in every conversation is a common social practice (and assuming that people rarely lie about such things), then expenditures on school education might be fairly visible. In other words, the visibility we wish to measure is a sociocultural rather than physical feature of commodities, determined by the sociocultural context in which they are consumed (Heffetz: Test of Conspicuous Consumption).

7.1. Geometric price index could be used for estimation of AIDS model. But the econometrics packages do provide non-linear estimation. We use an R library [microEcon] - to run the AIDS model.
7.2. Like in Imhoff, we can assume dp=0. Generally, if one can recover systematic price variations (regional, seasonal, product-differentiation-related, quality-related differences), it should be possible to estimate price elasticities from cross-sectional data. Simple aggregation is fraught with problems with consumers choose quality as well as quantity (Chanjin Chung, Diansheng Dong, Todd M Schmit, Harry M Kaiser, Brian Gould). Quality-adjusted price inelasticities need to be explored. Should quality be taken into account? (because price is assumed to be fixed in the cross-sectional data).

7.3 number of households can also play a role (p 1802, Deaton, Demand Analysis).

8. The overall strategy is that we use AIDS model in the 5 years time-series data available from the UK Expenditure survey. The unavailability of time-series in LSMS limits us to a cross-sectional analysis where price-elasticities are set to 0. When the time-series is not employed,

9. A discussion on quality is to follow becuase this happens to be a serious concern in developing economies. Without considering the caveats in unit-value, it becomes difficult to influde a visible product in the basket susceptible to quality changes (since a richer consumer loading up on higher quality products may be ignored by the visible).

10. The effects of visiblity are relevant for self-image as well. In other words, a consumer increasing consumption of visible products does so not only to signal others of her higher status but also to increase her own sense of well-being.

11. Geographical variations are meant to be analyzed in the survey as well - a factor that has been ignored so far. Deaton has used Cote d'Ivoire data to come up with this model. Deaton runs within-cluster regressions and before applying the overall data. Deaton also notes the zero-purchase problem.

12. A pseudo-panel approach is yet to be tested.[Meng et al.]

14. Ori Heffetz regresses the total expenditure elasticity (income elasticity of demand) with the calculated visibility index (aidsElas provides this for AIDS model).

15. We just need to see how Deaton calculates expenditure elasticities for Cote d'Ivoire.

16. What are the reasons behind simpler model working for TNZ?

