THe presented model deals with how uncertainty may affect investments. How wealth and status positions  are maintained is neither purely  hereditary nor market-driven.  Thurow, how addresses this point,  highlights, like Weber, how social capital investments affect the queue of relative positions - entailing social processes are not detached from economic processes.

The first author to remark the role of signaling - as relative position. However, Spence does not rely on the information asymmetry inherent in institutions such as education - where inherent talents are only revealed through competitions  that are an interplay of both social participation and innate characteristics . 

The sense of competition is similar to that by  Camboni, Niu, Pai, Vohra - who mention that more informative monitoring policies appeal to high-type students seeking to differentiate themselves from low-type students through increased effort. What the  model presented in the paper adds is the effect of income differences.  Lowering of participation costs could increase competition - but first, competitions among the poor too are affected when social capital investments  become more important. Second, higher income differences can prevail with lower participation costs. It may be worthwhile to consider whether lower income differencs (which have implications more wide-ranging than education) are more important to address than higher participation costs. Participation costs serve a different role in maintaining status comepetitions. The extreme situation where income differences are lower but participation costs higher could be more desirable in certain situations than were income differences are high but participation costs are lower. This is where the reference-dependent utility server as an important policy goal - of letting social rankings serve local goals and not make utility from wealth higher all across the board.


They talk about how group homogeneity varies across countries. 

===


 Education Angle
 Signaling in Education
 Job Market Signaling by Spence- 
 		highlights that hiring somebody is a problem of uncertainty (this is relevant because innate abilities and interaction both shape judgment - this is what consumers optimise in the model). The paper's distinction aligns with my raw talent and social capital model - however my ideas is more supportive of information asymmetry (race/gender may matter but they are visible, talents are not visible and need a track record)
 		argues that  an alterable characteristic like education becomes an actual signal when costs are negatively correlated with actual productivity (this also has parallel to games becoming infeasible because when costs are too high the value isn't provided to the consumer i.e. talent starts to matter more).
		admits that education being a sorting operation makes it hardly about signaling
 Thurow - generating inequality - https://archive.org/details/generatinginequa0000unse - however thurow seems more concerned with distribution (upper middle class gaining at the cost of lower and higher classes - he says that just based on aggregate descriptive statistics). He highlights that distribution of earnings is different from distribution of wealth (this is also relevant to my theory). He also talks about how physical wealth and human wealth cannot be added (in Weberian framework - opportunity or Chancen permit just that). What's relevant is the fairness of distribution game - where the maximisation of risk-neutral values seems to be the accepted goal from Rawls. He does consider the idea of a lottery of distribution and that is essential to my theory. He talks about labour queue - by emphasising the relative position in the queue - rather than a market of skills. He says workers compete but not based on willingness to accept low wages but for position based on background characteristics. He explains this further how daily bidding would disincentivise education-sharing among professors - because of there being less incentive is the professors were competing against students. This also explains - Thurow  points out - how employers justify the value of their training by not letting trained labour compete with their previous selves - the untrained labour. Thurow uses this to explain how discrimination against blacks prevails - as he rejects the explanation that white employees must have skills that they don't pass on to black employees (i.e. the ideas that hostility with blacks getting promoted imposes some costs). Instead he argues that monopolisation - the promoter of social distance - causes such such discrimination to prevail. Thurow has his some ideas about interdependent preferences/utility - which is relates with psychologists' ideas of envy. In my model, utility is wealth based and relative preferences don't matter - except through reference dependence. He discusses wealth-inheritance in great details - but an important detail that I must mention is that my model simplifies wealth accumulation as a social class transition (page 156).
 Bastani - Optimal redistribution and education signaling - less relevant as it's related to taxation - but the basic premise is somewhat related
		wage distribution becomes endogenous, and is affected by the screening/signaling possibilities available to employers/workers.
 Camboni, Niu, Pai, Vohra - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.02328
		Intense effort into signaling may be socially wasteful - lower fees attract all types equally but do not affect social welfare; more informative monitoring policies appeal to high-type students seeking to differentiate themselves from low-type students through increased effort. Consequently, even when fees are driven to zero, competition for high-type students compels schools to offer more informative monitoring, prompting high-types to exert more effort to signal their ability. This dynamic leads to wasteful effort and lower social welfare. This point is so related - that I would need to make sure I differentiate my model from this one. What I am saying with my model is also that lowering of participation costs does increase competition - but competitions themselves become infeasible when everyone starts to participate. What is needed is probably a competition that separates classes based on naturally occurring characteristics but also appeals to everyone. That status comeptitions exist - implies that these either participation costs are too high or differences too wide. The model from Camboni just doesn't consider the effect of income differences as much. 
 Alessa K. Durst -  Education as a Positional Good? Evidence from the German Socio‑Economic Panel - argues that Education is positional
 https://largescaleassessmentsineducation.springeropen.com/articles/10.1186/s40536-018-0062-1?utm_source=chatgpt.com 
		Many studies have shown that the relationship between formal qualifications and labor market outcomes is stronger in some countries than in others and that the strength of the association is related to secondary education system
		Highlights in the literature survey how signaling theory contrasts against human capital theory - this is the sense in which Spence is relevant to my theory. What I am saying is that a combination of skills and social capital is all that affects social-economic - and that such an equilibrium is subject to feasibility constraints (in that competitions must be feasible). Feasiliby is thus a the main driver of conclusions. THIS NEEDS TO BE STATED IN INTRODUCTION as well. 
		In fact, my perspective is similar to credentialism  - that is rooted in Weberian framework. 
		The author explore the ideas that tracked systems deprive low-achieving students of stimulating interactions with higher-achieving peers and thereby reinforce preexisting inequalities (Gamoran 2000). This is similar to what my model says about interaction. They argue that stronger tracking can be expected to increase the internal homogeneity of educational groups - variation in homegeneity of educational groups across countries is an issue that is central to their exploration.
		 internal homogeneity declines with the extent of standardization of input - a result that is counterintuitive since one would expect standardization to result in more homogeneous learning - my model considers this with social cost - the idea that we wish to advance signaling value is key.
DEGREES MATTER: NEW EVIDENCE ON SHEEPSKIN EFFECTS IN THE RETURNS TO EDUCATIO - Jaege, Page
		refers to "Sheepskin Effects in the Returns to Education" by Hungerford, Solon,  "Sheepskin Effects in the Returns to Education: An Examination of Women and Minoirities" by Belman and Heywood. 
		race is a key matter to this article and is therefore important for my work's background. 
Whogets ahead - https://archive.org/details/whogetsaheaddete0000jenc	
		Both education and cognitive-skills matter (this is empirical work) 
Signaling and Employer Learning with Instruments - https://www.jstor.org/stable/27155932?seq=1
		Signaling is wasteful and creates a wedge between private and social returns to education. 
Ridgeway - Why is status everywhere ? - https://www.jstor.org/stable/10.7758/9781610448895