1. PERSPECTIVE - Things like logon should have come out of the discussion - a perspective that is lacking. Partly it is the fault that no active user communication exists - but this was supposed to have come out through each one of you. Market binary hasn't been run - we're trying to deploy it - but it has taken way too long. This is how it typically should have worked:
  i)   Activity Diagram - User logon - How does this translate into classes. 
  ii)  Test Cases - how do we check if the user can send all information? 

  This is the table we're going to use.
  || Activity || Artifact || Completion Criteria ||
 
2. INDEPENDENCE (Rules for UAT) - This goes in with the completion criterion. If you don't go through the completion criterion - your task is not completed - and would be reopened by the person monitoring your progress. Other than that you ought to be independent, if there is something that you don't know - you would be assigned another activity. If you don't know shell-script for example, you would be assigned to get an understanding of shell-scripting - the criterion of completion is that of a sub-task. There are no points for half-completion of a task - nobody wants your ideas on how to complete a job unless it has been implemented.

3. TASKS
3.1 Logon would disallow two logons with the same name at the same time - and it would authenticate users as well. The password must be encrypted at some point (not immediately).
3.2 Profiling is key at this point
3.3 HandleORSUpdates need to be removed
3.4 Optimizations for QuickFIX need to be in place. One task would be to poll memory.
3.5 Market Data needs to be passed to the GUI.

4. UAT
The testing is far from complete. Nadia has written some tasks - but no much more development has been gone on - we needed to automate all tests as well. This is an effort which must go on. For trading engine - we need to adopt a simulator based tests. If an autocert testing can be provided by CME - we may be able to automate that as well. In next few days, I would be assigned AutoCert task to one of you - to familiarize yourselves with the order flow - which would be helpful for troubleshotting and communicating PNL issues (if any) later on.

5. PROFILING The next big task is that of measuring. We need to profile our applications and make sure that respective statistics are generated on a live or daily basis. These inputs are useful for strategy purposes.

6. MONITORING TASKS

7. UNIT TEST AUTOMATION

8. More ideas at this point are about compiled lines. The lines would be converted from a matlab code line (for loop etc. to convertible function). This process needs to be submitted to the tool. Every line is compiled one by one and all the pre-requisites must be already known.
