
Application details
Programme Code	Programme Name	Entry	Online Application Reference Number
RPQM-L1ZP-09	PhD PT Economics - Semester 1 start	 Sep 2015	150565880

Page 1 of 8 General Information	 	 
GENERAL INFORMATION
You have chosen to apply online for the following programme:
PhD PT Economics - Semester 1 start for entry in Sep2015 studying part-time
In order to make a decision on your application, we need to be in receipt of the following supporting documentation: 

1. Completed application form
2. Degree transcripts. Please provide a transcript of your degree(s). If you have not yet completed your degree please provide a transcript of your results achieved to date. 
-	If your degree was from a UK university-please upload a transcript of your marks for each year. 
-	If your degree was from an overseas institution-you should supply a transcript of your marks for each year of your studies and a copy of your degree certificate together with a certified translation if the document is not in English. Please note that original documentation will be required before you enrol. International applicants are also advised to include high school transcripts.
3. Two references. Please provide the contact details of two referees, at least one reference must be from an academic referee who is in a position to comment on the standard of your academic work and suitability for postgraduate level study. Where appropriate, a second referee can provide comment on your professional experience.
Your referee(s) can either submit a paper copy (Download our Reference Request Form) and post it to us or complete it electronically and send via email. If your referee emails your reference to us we can only accept this if it is sent from a university or company email address. References from a personal email address such as ‘Yahoo’ or ‘Hotmail’ are not acceptable. Paper reference forms should be endorsed by an appropriate institution/company official stamp or on official institution/company letterhead.
4. Resume/Curriculum Vitae (CV)

The above documents are mandatory but it is also advisable to send the following documents in support of your application:

a. A research proposal or statement of research interest (see http://www.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/applyresearchdegrees/researchproposal/index.html for detailed advice on putting this statement together.)
b. Statement of Purpose. This should typically be one side of A4
c. IELTS/TOEFL certificate (if applicable). Overseas applicants should provide evidence of English language ability-IELTS, TOEFL, or other acceptable proof- please see www.qmul.ac.uk/international for details
Please note this list of documents may vary slightly from course to course, so please ensure that you refer to the guidance notes and the departmental website for the course that you are applying for if you are in any doubt about what you should submit.

Guidance notes (http://www.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/guidancenotes/) are available to help you in completing the application form. You can view these guidance notes by clicking the button at the top of each page. If you need to log out of the application form before you have completed it, click the 'Save and Log-out' button at the bottom of each page. You can log in later to amend and finalise your application.
When you have completed your online application you will need to submit it for consideration by the College. Your application will not be dealt with until you hit the "Submit application to Queen Mary" button.
A NOTE ON USING THIS FORM:
Please use the back buttons found at the foot of the application form, where available, rather than your browser back button as data may be lost if you do so. 
We recommend that all applicants "Save and Logout" once when starting the application, as this will provide you with a secure link via email which will allow you back into your application should something happen while you are completing the form.
Frequently asked questions

Can I apply for more than one programme of study? You may apply for a maximum of two taught programmes or one taught and one Research programme at Queen Mary. If you are applying on line this will require you to submit two applications. 
NOTE: although you may apply for two programmes, under College regulations you can only study for one qualification at a time. If you receive offers for both programmes, you will be required to accept one and decline the other. 

Is there a deadline for receipt of applications? There is no fixed College closing date for applications, although specific programmes may have their own deadline, which will be advertised on a programme's webpage. You should also remember that decisions on applications will be made as quickly as possible and popular programmes may become full, so we advise applying as soon as possible. If a programme does become full we will update our webpages accordingly. Students seeking financial support from Research Councils or other award giving bodies are advised to apply early. 

Is there an application fee? The College does not charge an application fee

Is my qualification recognised? Our International Office have a list of countries/regions for which we have published admissions information online. Please check here (http://www.qmul.ac.uk/international/countries/index.html) Alternatively we use UKNARIC to check the equivalency of International and European qualifications (http://www.naric.org.uk/)

What happens after I submit my form? Complete applications will be considered by Admissions Tutors. We aim to inform you of a decision on your application within 4 weeks of receipt if you have provided all the required documentation. 

If you have further questions about the application process, please contact: The Admissions Office Tel: +44 (0)20 7882 5511 Email: Admissions@qmul.ac.uk
   


Thank you for your application
PROCESS.IPP.SRS
Your application has been saved for you to complete at a later date. You will now be emailed a secure link which will log you back into your application form. You should receive this email within 24 hours.
Course title
PhD PT Economics - Semester 1 start
Course code
RPQM-L1ZP-09 / 0006
Department
School of Economics and Finance

Potential Supervisors:

1. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/ghazalaazmat.html (NOR)
2. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/richardbaillie.html (DONE)
3. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/francisbreedon.html
4. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/andreacarriero.html (NOT)
5. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/renatofaccini.html
6. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/marcelofernandes.html (only HF)
7. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/erikhjalmarsson.html
8. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/haroonmumtaz.html 
9. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/michaelneumann.html
10. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/georgeskiadopoulos.html
11. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/andreatesei.html
12. http://econ.qmul.ac.uk/staff/robertoveneziani.html


I am a student at London Business School and am interested in researching as a PhD student at Queen Mary UL. The project I have in mind looks at effects of cross-asset liquidity on equity valuations. I wish to explore the explanatory power of measures of  liquidity the way volatility has been explored for FX rates and portfolio valuations. 

I have a background in quant work for trading (high frequency and risk management ) and wondered if you might be open to offering supervisory guidance to an admitted PhD student. Any suggestions or pointers otherwise would be equally helpful.

Do let me know if you would like to take a look at the research proposal in its current form.

------------------------

I am a student at London Business School and was interested in pursuing a PhD program at  Queen Mary UL. The research project I have in mind attempts to identify conspicuous consumption in Africa - in comparison to other geographic regions -  and hopes to get inputs for policy and investments research. 

I am interested in the topic less from a development economics perspective than from a general utility theory perspective. If there is a possibility for you to advise me for a PhD in this area, I would love to know.  Any recommendations or suggestions otherwise would be equally helpful as well.

